# Smash_Stats

To run this application, open Rstudio and input the following command:

    runGitHub( "Smash_Stats", "axpepper") 

Super Smash Bros. is a series of crossover fighting video games published by Nintendo, and primarily features characters from various franchises of theirs. The series was created by Masahiro Sakurai, who has directed every game in the series. The original Super Smash Bros., released in 1999 for the Nintendo 64, had a small budget and was originally a Japan-only release, but its domestic success led to a worldwide release. The series achieved even greater success with the release of Super Smash Bros. Melee, which was released in 2001 for the GameCube and became the bestselling game on that system.

Super Smash Brother Melee had an unexpectadly strong following in the fighting game community. Although the game was designed with casual players in mind, unintended mechanics gave rise to an intense high-level metagame. At the highest level, Super Smash Brother Melee is dominated by a few characters-- those with the fastest movement and skillset.

Seemingly having learned from its errors, Nintendo introduced new mechanics designed to bring balance to the next iteration of Super Smash Bros-- Brawl. They also introduced random mechanics that reinforced the "party-game" nature of Super Smash Brothers. Though they tried, they introduced more probalems than they solved. Once enough players got good at the game, they realized that certain characters were more overpowered than ever before. Nintendo's oversight was so great that the competitive scene went as far as banning a character that they deemed overpowered. Meta Knight, the aforementioned banned-character was simply faster and manueverable than the rest of the cast.

After Brawl, Nintendo released Smash 4. While more balanced than its predecessor, the game still contained overpowered mechanics. Once Players began to understand the metagame, there was a clear correlation between a character's grab strength and their ability to place highly in tournaments.

Four months ago, the most recent version of Smash, Super Smash Brothers Ultimate, has been released. At this point in time, the meta-game is not yet developed. Players are yet to learn optimal strategies, playstyles and character choices. Many speculate about optimal strategies, and professional players typically dominate the conversation. As a complement to the speculations of profession-players, I've introduced a tool that compares the properties of different moves with overall tournament success. The tool leverages Three different datasets: One containing Tournament results, one containing Character attributes, and one containing frame data. While in-depth data for super-smash bros is easily found online, it isn't found in a central location and it is very-difficult to cross reference. This tool solves both of those problems. In addition to its ability to analysize the correlation between different character properties and tournament success, this app also allows you to list the frame data for each character in super smash bros. 

This game also featured a head-to-head section, which helps analyze the matchup between two combatants. Leveraging tournament results, average stock differential at the end of a game are returned to the user for a given matchup. Side-by-side frame data is also displayed so that a player may be better able to decide how to fight against a certain character.
